---
layout: post
title: RetroPie Console Build
date: 2016-03-03 00:00
comments: false
categories: []
---
<p>
If you’re like me, and you grew up in the 90’s, you have a nostalgic love for SNES, Sega Genesis, and N64 games. This past week, the nostalgia came to a head when my future brother in law began looking up prices for used N64 consoles, as well as a few choice games (Super Smash, anyone?). 
<br/><br/>
Thankfully, the solution was in quick reach: <a href="http://blog.petrockblock.com/retropie/">The RetroPie Project.</a> This awesome software has been in development for some time, and allows easy emulation of NES, SNES, and more games on a Raspberry Pi. I chose to install it on my Raspberry Pi 2 to give it the best chance of playing some of the more graphically intense games, like the aforementioned Super Smash Brothers on N64. In order to get it running, I had to overclock the Pi to the “Pi2” setting in the rasps-config dialog. The “Turbo” setting may also work, but the turbo specs had me anxious (6 Overvolt). 
<br/><br/>
Because I overclocked my Pi, I wanted to ensure it had adequate cooling, so I adhered heatsinks to the GPU and CPU. The case I had originally purchased for the Pi had no means for ventilation, so I decided to start from the ground up. Well, Thingiverse first, then ground up. After reviewing a few fan friendly cases, I found one that I <a href="http://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1312091">liked.</a> The case had a very cool design, but I didn’t have any completely circular fans on hand. I did have a few 120 mm fans, but they had a square outer profile. With all that in mind, I took to CATIA, and about 15 minutes later I had a simple design that allowed my fan to be fastened to the bottom, and proper ventilation around the Pi. It was time to print.
<br/><br/>
The main portion of the case took around 15 hours to print, and the lid and "feet" each took around an hour and a half. All in all, it was an easy weekend project, and a whole lot of fun in the end.
<br/><br/>
</p>